
This directory contains the hacks I used for extracting the typewriter font
from the original GIER typewriter.

It's not fully automatic; manual work is required.

Some of the automation is based on correlation, but it only scores matching
pixels and doesn't penalize mismatches, so a filled black rectangle larger than
the glyph will always be a "perfect match". I did it like this because glyphs
in the documents are close together and I wanted to match glyphs regardless of
"neighbouring garbage". If I had to do this again I'd probably figure out a
better approach to correlation because most of the manual labour was done here
(deleting false positives). Also, glyphs that are both relatively rare and also
"subsets" of other glyphs were especially troublesome with this approach, e.g.
"c" really wanted to match o's instead of c's

Also, invidual glyph positioning depends on how you place the bounding box with
the 02-pick tool. This is easy when the glyph's metrics (left/right/top/bottom)
are clear, but in practice some glyphs "break the convention". Especially
numbers are a bit wonky (seemingly intentionally - maybe to improve
readability?). Some of this could probably also be automated, by considering
neighbouring glyphs and the baseline of each line of text.


Initial procedure:

 - Use pdfimages to extract .pbm files from a .pdf, and use
   Image-/GraphicsMagick to convert them to .png

 - Use 01-deskew.py to automatically deskew/unrotate images using Hough
   transform. It depends on OpenCV (as Python import) and GraphicsMagick (as gm
   binary). The latter could easily be changed to ImageMagick.



Per-glyph procedure:

 - Use 02-pick.c to find and pick the next glyph you want to extract. You
   should use the same input bbox metrics for all glyphs. It depends on SDL3.
   Use right mouse button to pan, wheel to zoom, and left mouse button to
   extract the image inside the bbox.

 - Retouch _pick.png if there's "garbage" in the image, e.g. dirt or
   neighbouring glyphs. Note, this image is only used for correlation, not
   reconstruction.

 - Use 03-correlate.c to find best matches in another image. It'll write
   _correlate.*.png files (this may be slow)

 - Delete _correlate.*.png files that are false positives

 - Use 04-combine.c to combine remaining _correlate.*.png files into a single
   glyph image. Since output is 1-bit color, you can use a quality
   upscaler (=better than linear interpolation) on the input images before
   combining, and then downscale the combined image to get anti-aliasing


These programs are less generic, but show how I did the rest:

  03a-bulk-correlate.sh - runs 03-correlate on many inputs
  04a-combine.sh        - upscales before running 04-combine
  05a-make-atlas.c      - makes atlas texture from results

I used Krita for cleaning up 02-pick outputs, and the final atlas.


Also, some "post-mortem notes":

 - The "Z" is guesswork based on "z" and "E"; I found no samples

 - The OR-symbol ("v"-ish) is guesswork based on the AND-symbol ("^"-ish); I
   found no samples

 - The "right end of the curvy stroke" on "Q" is guesswork because I could only
   find a few samples, and the "curvy stroke" (that distinguishes "Q" from "O")
   always overlapped with the next glyph.

 - I used https://datamuseum.dk/bits/30007378 for most glyph samples, but a few
   came from https://datamuseum.dk/bits/30002482 which may or may not be the
   exact same font. The following glyphs came exclusively from 30002482: "J",
   "X", "å", "Å", "Ø". 30002482 was generally a better source for upper-case
   letters because it uses them for headings. 30007378 lacks "å"/"Å" entirely
   (uses "aa"/"Aa" instead)
