A hardware+software replacement for the GIER typewriter, which is the
"terminal" (part of the console) for the GIER.

It's a revamp of an earlier attempt to do a typewriter simulation:
https://datamuseum.dk/wiki/GIER/Skrivemaskinesimulering
https://github.com/Datamuseum-DK/PIC18.flexowriter

The real typewriter is in a bad/worsening state: the ribbon is almost out of
ink, it needs rubber bands and a helping hand to move the carriage, and lately
the motor gets burning hot (and smells like soldering) when you turn on the
power. So the purpose then, and now, is to replace it with something longer
term.

The earlier attempt didn't work without the typewriter "helping"; GIER sends
characters over a 7-bit data bus, and has another signal for strobing the data
("Za"). On the receiving end the hardware must set a "wait signal" ("Z0") until
it's ready to receive another character (a typewriter usually takes ~100ms per
character). Simple enough at first glance, but the timing is finicky, and GIER
starts spamming characters at a high rate if the Z0-signal doesn't come within
a few microseconds after the Za-signal. However, when the typewriter is
activated its circuitry generates the Z0-signal for you, so this worked for a
while with the old design (it can still listen on bus/Za).

The new design, like the old one, is a board for the D1-25 slot (we didn't have
to rewire anything, so the old board still works). An RPi runs the typewriter
software, and speaks with GIER over GPIO. The RPi is isolated from the GIER via
opto-isolators. We assumed that opto-isolators, gates, and the OS adds signal
latency, so we ended up partly solving the Z0-problem on the GIER-side of the
opto-isolators: the Za-signal from GIER triggers a 555-timer that generates the
"initial Z0-signal". The Za-signal is also forwarded to the RPi, which responds
by generating a longer "Z0-assist-signal". The final Z0 signal sent to GIER is
a logical-OR of the 555-timer Z0 and Z0-assist. See doc/ for diagrams.

In an earlier revision, we tried to generate the Z0-signal exclusively with the
555-timer (so the RPi just listened on bus+Za), but it seems that the 555
doesn't like being triggered again microseconds after its period, see:
doc/scope-view-of-bad-555-design.jpg
